---
title: SeeClickFix API v2
---

# SeeClickFix API v2

This describes the resources that make up the official SeeClickFix API v2. If
you have any problems or requests please contact
[support](mailto:dev@seeclickfix.com?subject=APIv2).

SeeClickFix provides an open311 compatible API at [http://seeclickfix.com/open311](http://seeclickfix.com/open311).

* TOC
{:toc}

### Authentication

SeeClickFix uses key based authentication. You can obtain or change your key in your personal preferences page. This key should remain secret and should only be used over SSL for security. Unless noted otherwise, read-only requests do not require a key. Write requests require a key.

#### Getting a Key

To obtain a key you must have a SeeClickFix account. You may register for a free account here: https://seeclickfix.com/register

Once you have an account login and go to "My Account" > "Preferences". There is an "API Keys" section on the lefthand side of the page. Once you generate a key its ready to use. Please remember that use of the API falls under our Open Data Policy (http://seeclickfix.com/open_data) and Terms of Use (http://seeclickfix.com/terms_of_use).


## URL Schema

URLs follow the following format

  https://[locale].seeclickfix.com/api/v2/ 

### Format

All data is sent and received as JSON.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://seeclickfix.com/api/v2/info

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Fri, 12 Oct 2012 23:33:14 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Connection: keep-alive
Status: 200 OK
ETag: "a00049ba79152d03380c34652f2cb612"
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-GitHub-Media-Type: github.beta
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4987
Content-Length: 5
Cache-Control: max-age=0, private, must-revalidate
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff

[]
</pre>

### Blank Fields

Blank fields are included as `null` instead of being omitted.

### Time Formats

All timestamps are returned in ISO 8601 format:

    YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ

### Parameters

Many API methods take optional parameters. For GET requests, any parameters not
specified as a segment in the path can be passed as an HTTP query string
parameter:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i "https://api.github.com/repos/mojombo/jekyll/issues?state=closed"
</pre>

In this example, the 'mojombo' and 'jekyll' values are provided for the `:owner`
and `:repo` parameters in the path while `:state` is passed in the query
string.

For POST requests, parameters not included in the URL should be encoded as JSON
with a Content-Type of 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded':

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i -u username -d '{"scopes":["public_repo"]}' https://api.github.com/authorizations
</pre>



## Client Errors

There are three possible types of client errors on API calls that
receive request bodies:

1. Sending invalid JSON will result in a `400 Bad Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 35

        {"message":"Problems parsing JSON"}

2. Sending the wrong type of JSON values will result in a `400 Bad
   Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 40

        {"message":"Body should be a JSON Hash"}

3. Sending invalid fields will result in a `422 Unprocessable Entity`
   response.

        HTTP/1.1 422 Unprocessable Entity
        Content-Length: 149

        {
          "message": "Validation Failed",
          "errors": [
            {
              "resource": "Issue",
              "field": "title",
              "code": "missing_field"
            }
          ]
        }

All error objects have resource and field properties so that your client
can tell what the problem is.  There's also an error code to let you
know what is wrong with the field.  These are the possible validation error
codes:

missing
: This means a resource does not exist.

missing\_field
: This means a required field on a resource has not been set.

invalid
: This means the formatting of a field is invalid.  The documentation
for that resource should be able to give you more specific information.

already\_exists
: This means another resource has the same value as this field.  This
can happen in resources that must have some unique key (such as Label
names).

If resources have custom validation errors, they will be documented with the resource.

## HTTP Redirects

API v3 uses HTTP redirection where appropriate. Clients should assume that any
request may result in a redirection. Receiving an HTTP redirection is *not* an
error and clients should follow that redirect. Redirect responses will have a
`Location` header field which contains the URI of the resource to which the
client should repeat the requests.

301
: Permanent redirection. The URI you used to make the request has been
superseded by the one specified in the `Location` header field. This and all
future requests to this resource should be directed to the new URI.

302, 307
: Temporary redirection. The request should be repeated verbatim to the URI
specified in the `Location` header field but clients should continue to use the
original URI for future requests.

Other redirection status codes may be used in accordance with the HTTP 1.1 spec.

## HTTP Verbs

Where possible, API v3 strives to use appropriate HTTP verbs for each
action.

HEAD
: Can be issued against any resource to get just the HTTP header info.

GET
: Used for retrieving resources.

POST
: Used for creating resources, or performing custom actions (such as
merging a pull request).

PATCH
: Used for updating resources with partial JSON data.  For instance, an
Issue resource has `title` and `body` attributes.  A PATCH request may
accept one or more of the attributes to update the resource.  PATCH is a
relatively new and uncommon HTTP verb, so resource endpoints also accept
POST requests.

PUT
: Used for replacing resources or collections. For PUT requests
with no `body` attribute, be sure to set the `Content-Length` header to zero.

DELETE
: Used for deleting resources.

## Authentication

There are three ways to authenticate through GitHub API v3.  Requests that
require authentication will return 404, instead of 403, in some places.  This
is to prevent the accidental leakage of private repositories to unauthorized
users.

### Basic Authentication

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -u "username" https://api.github.com
</pre>

### OAuth2 Token (sent in a header)

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -H "Authorization: token OAUTH-TOKEN" https://api.github.com
</pre>

### OAuth2 Token (sent as a parameter)

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.github.com/?access_token=OAUTH-TOKEN
</pre>

Read [more about OAuth2](/v3/oauth/).  Note that OAuth2 tokens can be [acquired
programmatically](/v3/oauth/#create-a-new-authorization), for applications that
are not websites.

### OAuth2 Key/Secret

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.github.com/users/whatever?client_id=xxxx&client_secret=yyyy
</pre>

This should only be used in server to server scenarios.  Don't leak your
OAuth application's client secret to your users.  Read [more about
unauthenticated rate limiting](#unauthenticated-rate-limited-requests).

## Hypermedia

All resources may have one or more `*_url` properties linking to other
resources.  These are meant to provide explicit URLs so that proper API clients
don't need to construct URLs on their own.  It is highly recommended that API
clients use these.  Doing so will make future upgrades of the API easier for
developers.  All URLs are expected to be proper [RFC 6570][rfc] URI templates.

You can then expand these templates using something like the [`uri_template`][uri]
gem:

    >> tmpl = URITemplate.new('/notifications{?since,all,participating}')
    >> tmpl.expand
    => "/notifications"

    >> tmpl.expand :all => 1
    => "/notifications?all=1"

    >> tmpl.expand :all => 1, :participating => 1
    => "/notifications?all=1&participating=1"

[rfc]: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6570
[uri]: https://github.com/hannesg/uri_template

### Pagination

Requests that return multiple items will be paginated to 20 items by
default.  You can specify further pages with the `?page` parameter. For some
resources, you can also set a custom page size up to 100 with the `?per_page` parameter.
Note that for technical reasons not all endpoints respect the `?per_page` parameter,
see [events](http://developer.github.com/v3/activity/events/) for example.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.github.com/user/repos?page=2&per_page=100
</pre>

The pagination info is included in [the Link
header](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/9707-link-header.html). It is important to
follow these Link header values instead of constructing your own URLs. In some
instances, such as in the [Commits
API](/v3/repos/commits/), pagination is based on
SHA1 and not on page number.

    Link: <https://api.github.com/user/repos?page=3&per_page=100>; rel="next",
      <https://api.github.com/user/repos?page=50&per_page=100>; rel="last"

_Linebreak is included for readability._

The possible `rel` values are:

`next`
: Shows the URL of the immediate next page of results.

`last`
: Shows the URL of the last page of results.

`first`
: Shows the URL of the first page of results.

`prev`
: Shows the URL of the immediate previous page of results.

## User Agent Required

All API requests MUST include a valid User Agent string. Requests with no User Agent
string will be rejected. If you are hitting the API without authentication, we ask that
you add some kind of identification to the UA header value. This is so we can contact
you if there are problems.

### Conditional requests

Most responses return `Last-Modified` and `ETag` headers. You can use the values
of these headers to make subsequent requests to those resources using the
`If-Modified-Since` and `If-None-Match` headers, respectively. If the resource
has not changed, the server will return a `304 Not Modified`. 

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://api.github.com/user
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 200 OK
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996

$ curl -i https://api.github.com/user -H "If-Modified-Since: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT"
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996

$ curl -i https://api.github.com/user -H 'If-None-Match: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"'
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4996
</pre>

### JSON-P Callbacks

You can send a `?callback` parameter to any GET call to have the results
wrapped in a JSON function.  This is typically used when browsers want
to embed GitHub content in web pages by getting around cross domain
issues.  The response includes the same data output as the regular API,
plus the relevant HTTP Header information.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://api.github.com?callback=foo

foo({
  "meta": {
    "status": 200,
    "X-RateLimit-Limit": "5000",
    "X-RateLimit-Remaining": "4966",
    "Link": [ // pagination headers and other links
      ["https://api.github.com?page=2", {"rel": "next"}]
    ]
  },
  "data": {
    // the data
  }
})
</pre>

You can write a JavaScript handler to process the callback like this:

<pre class="highlight"><code class="language-javascript">function foo(response) {
  var meta = response.meta
  var data = response.data
  console.log(meta)
  console.log(data)
}</code></pre>

All of the headers are the same String value as the HTTP Headers with one
notable exception: Link.  Link headers are pre-parsed for you and come
through as an array of `[url, options]` tuples.

A link that looks like this:

    Link: <url1>; rel="next", <url2>; rel="foo"; bar="baz"

... will look like this in the Callback output:

<%= json "Link" => [
  ["url1", {:rel => "next"}],
  ["url2", {:rel => "foo", :bar => "baz"}]] %>

### Locale

All attributes are consistent between locales. Errors may be translated based on the given locale. Objects created will record the locale they were created in and notices based on these objects will be delivered with the proper locale. i.e. if an issue is created with the "es" locale, all email to the creator will be delivered with Spanish translations.
